PSP migration script. (#111)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/07/psp-migration-script.md

---

> title: Let me help you migrate your PSPs to Kubewarden policies!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Migrate your PSPs to Kubewarden policies!
```

authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-07-07
---

> As announced in past blog posts, Kubewarden have 100% coverage of the deprecated,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As announced in past blog posts, Kubewarden offers 100% coverage for the deprecated,
```

Reviewer 2: On top of that, I would be nice to make "past blog posts" link to older blog posts about this topic. If we have more than one, we could have "past" link to "post 1", "blog" link to "post 2" and so on so forth.

I don't know if we ever tagged blog posts, we could also have a "PSP" tag that collects all of them

> and soon removed, Kuberernetes PSPs. If everything goes as expected the PSPs will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and to-be-removed, Kuberernetes PSPs. If everything goes as expected, the PSPs will
```

> be removed in Kubernetes v1.25. Which  is planned to 23rd August 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be removed in Kubernetes v1.25 due for release on 23rd August 2022.
```

> With our users in mind, the Kubewarden team wrote a script, which leverage the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this in mind, the Kubewarden team has written a script that leverages the
```

> migration tool wrote by people from [AppVia](https://github.com/appvia/psp-migration),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
migration tool written by people from [AppVia](https://github.com/appvia/psp-migration),
```

to migrate PSP automatically. With this script the PSP will be migrated for the
equivalent Kuberwarden policies.

> The script is available in the [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/path/to/script)

Author: Do not merge this PR until we have the link to the script.

Author: https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/pull/1

> in the Kubewarden Github organization. It's quite simple. It will download the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the Kubewarden Github organization. It will download the
```

Reviewer: I don't think this has been added in the latest commit or maybe I'm not able to see the latest changes?

Author: I may rebased the branch an lost this change. Sorry.

migration tool in the working directory and run it over all your PSPs printing
the equivalent Kuberwarden policies definition in the standard output. Therefore,
users can redirect the content to a file or to `kubectl` directly.

> The script will migrate the PSPs defined in `kubectl` default context  in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script will migrate the PSPs defined in `kubectl` default context.
```

Reviewer 3: I will top it with

```suggestion
The script will migrate the PSPs defined in the `kubectl` context in use.
```

> The Kubewarden policies will be printed in the console log. Thus, the users can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden policies will be printed to stdout. Thus, the users can
```

> apply it directly or save it for further inspection.  Let's take a look in an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apply it directly or save it for further inspection.  Let's take a look at an example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: restricted
spec:
  hostNetwork: false
  hostIPC: false
  hostPID: false
  hostPorts:
    - min: 80
      max: 8080
  privileged: false
  # Required to prevent escalations to root.
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  requiredDropCapabilities:
    - ALL
  # Allow core volume types.
  volumes:
    - 'configMap'
    - 'emptyDir'
    - 'projected'
    - 'secret'
    - 'downwardAPI'
    # Assume that ephemeral CSI drivers & persistentVolumes set up by the cluster admin are safe to use.
    - 'csi'
    - 'persistentVolumeClaim'
    - 'ephemeral'
  runAsUser:
    # Require the container to run without root privileges.
    rule: 'MustRunAsNonRoot'
  seLinux:
    # This policy assumes the nodes are using AppArmor rather than SELinux.
    rule: 'RunAsAny'
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: 'MustRunAs'
    ranges:
      # Forbid adding the root group.
      - min: 1
        max: 65535
  fsGroup:
    rule: 'MustRunAs'
    ranges:
      # Forbid adding the root group.
      - min: 1
        max: 65535
  readOnlyRootFilesystem: true

```

The equivalent Kubewarden policies can be applied directly to a cluster with

> Kubewarden installed with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden installed using the following command:
```

```console
$ ./psp-to-kubewarden | kubectl apply -f -
Warning: policy/v1beta1 PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated in v1.21+, unavailable in v1.25+
Warning: policy/v1beta1 PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated in v1.21+, unavailable in v1.25+
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-privileged-82bf2 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-readonlyrootfilesystem-b4a55 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-hostnamespaces-a25a2 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-volumes-cee05 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-capabilities-34d8e created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-usergroup-878b0 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-fsgroup-3b08e created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-defaultallowprivilegeescalation-b7e87 created
```

> If users want to inspect the policies before appling them, it's possible to redirect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users want to inspect the policies before applying, it's possible to redirect
```

> the content to a file or review it directly in the console

Reviewer 4: maybe we can mention also the --dry-run option?

Author: In the latest version this options has been removed. Now, the script will print the policies in stdout. Thus, the user can redirect the policies definitions to `kubectl` or a file.

      resources:
        - pods
      operations:
        - CREATE
        - UPDATE
  mutating: false
  settings:
    allowed_capabilities: []
    required_drop_capabilities:
      - ALL

---
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: psp-usergroup-878b0
spec:
  module: registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/user-group-psp:v0.2.0
  rules:
    - apiGroups:
        - ""
      apiVersions:
        - v1
      resources:
        - pods
      operations:
        - CREATE
        - UPDATE
  mutating: false
  settings:
    run_as_user:
      rule: MustRunAsNonRoot
    supplemental_groups:
      ranges:
        - max: 65535
          min: 1
      rule: MustRunAs

---
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: psp-fsgroup-3b08e
spec:
  module: registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/allowed-fsgroups-psp:v0.1.4
  rules:
    - apiGroups:
        - ""
      apiVersions:
        - v1
      resources:
        - pods
      operations:
        - CREATE
        - UPDATE
  mutating: false
  settings:
    ranges:
      - max: 65535
        min: 1
    rule: MustRunAs

---
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1

> kind: ClusterAdmissionPolic

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
```

metadata:

>   name: psp-defaultallowprivilegeescalation-b7e87

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth add a note later on about the names used by the migration tool. We should point out that the names of the Kubewarden policies CR probably need to be tuned by the operators to be more human friendly

spec:
  module: >-
    registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/allow-privilege-escalation-psp:v0.1.11
  rules:
    - apiGroups:
        - ""
      apiVersions:
        - v1
      resources:
        - pods
      operations:
        - CREATE
        - UPDATE
  mutating: false
  settings:
    default_allow_privilege_escalation: false

```

> **Warning:** This script works only in Linux x86_64 machines.

> The Kubewarden team expects that helps user migrate away from PSPs as soon as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden team expects that this will help users migrate from PSPs as soon as possible.
```

> Let us know if you face some issues during the migration. We are help to help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us know if you run into issues. We are happy to help!
```

---
title: Migrate your PSPs to Kubewarden policies!
authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-07-13
---

> As announced in past [blog](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/01/mutating-policy-behave-as-validating/) [posts](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/05/psp-migration-docs/),

Reviewer: We should consider putting this as a reference below instead of hyperlinking two words.

> Kubewarden has 100% coverage of the deprecated, and soon removed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden has 100% coverage of the deprecated, and soon to be removed,
```

> Kubewarden have 100% coverage of the deprecated, and soon removed,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubewarden has 100% coverage of the deprecated, and soon removed,
```

Kuberernetes PSPs. If everything goes as expected the PSPs will
be removed in Kubernetes v1.25 due for release on 23rd August 2022.
With this in mind, the Kubewarden team has written a script that leverages the
migration tool written by people from [AppVia](https://github.com/appvia/psp-migration),

> to migrate PSP automatically. With this script the PSP will be migrated for the

Reviewer: I think, we'd benefit from telling users, very briefly albeit, what AppVia's script does because we've modified it to suit our usecase.

Author: I just copy the same text from the docs. Let me know if you believe it is not enough.

equivalent Kuberwarden policies.

The script is available in the [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/blob/main/scripts/psp-to-kubewarden)
in the Kubewarden Github organization. It's quite simple. It will download the
migration tool in the working directory and run it over all your PSPs printing
the equivalent Kuberwarden policies definition in the standard output. Therefore,
users can redirect the content to a file or to `kubectl` directly.

The script will migrate the PSPs defined in `kubectl` default context.
The Kubewarden policies will be printed to stdout. Thus, the users can

> apply it directly or save it for further inspection.  Let's take a look at an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apply it directly or save it for further inspection. Let's take a look at an example:
```

---
title: Migrate your PSPs to Kubewarden policies!
authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-07-13
---

As announced in past blog posts, Kubewarden has 100% coverage of the deprecated,
and soon to be removed, Kuberernetes PSPs. If everything goes as expected the PSPs will
be removed in Kubernetes v1.25 due for release on 23rd August 2022.

The Kubewarden team has written a script that leverages the migration tool written
by [AppVia](https://github.com/appvia/psp-migration), to migrate PSP

> automatically. The tool is capable of reading PSPs YAML and generate the equivalent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically. The tool is capable of reading PSPs YAML and can generate the equivalent
```

> policies in many different policy engines. Therefore, our simple script will migrate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
policies in many different policy engines. Our simple script migrates
```

> your PSPs to the equivalent Kuberwarden policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your PSPs to their equivalent Kubewarden policies.
```

The script is available in the [utils repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/utils/blob/main/scripts/psp-to-kubewarden)
in the Kubewarden GitHub organization. It will download the
migration tool in the working directory and run it over all your PSPs printing

> the equivalent Kuberwarden policies definition in the standard output. Therefore,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the equivalent Kuberwarden policies' definitions in the standard output. Therefore,
```

users can redirect the content to a file or to `kubectl` directly.

The script will migrate the PSPs defined in `kubectl` default context.
The Kubewarden policies will be printed to stdout. Thus, the users can
apply it directly or save it for further inspection. Let's take a look at an example:

> In a cluster with this PSP applied:

Author: I'm addind this suggestion to the text and merging the PR. Thus, we can release this text Today, as expected. @divya-mohan0209 , give me your feedback here again when you have time. I'll update the blog post with the fixes

> In a cluster with this PSP applied:

Reviewer: What does this PSP do? I'd like to reword it as
```suggestion
In a cluster with the PSP for <XYZ> applied:
```

Author: It does a lot of things. It block access to host namespaces, block privileged containers, does not allow privilege escalation, forces the drop of all containers capabilities, list the allowed volume types, define the allowed user and groups to be used, controls the supplemental group applied to volumes and force containers to run in a read-only root filesystem.

    ranges:
      # Forbid adding the root group.
      - min: 1
        max: 65535
  readOnlyRootFilesystem: true

```

The equivalent Kubewarden policies can be applied directly to a cluster with
Kubewarden installed using the following command:

```console
$ ./psp-to-kubewarden | kubectl apply -f -
Warning: policy/v1beta1 PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated in v1.21+, unavailable in v1.25+
Warning: policy/v1beta1 PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated in v1.21+, unavailable in v1.25+
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-privileged-82bf2 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-readonlyrootfilesystem-b4a55 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-hostnamespaces-a25a2 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-volumes-cee05 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-capabilities-34d8e created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-usergroup-878b0 created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-fsgroup-3b08e created
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/psp-defaultallowprivilegeescalation-b7e87 created
```

If users want to inspect the policies before applying, it's possible to redirect

> the content to a file or review it directly in the console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the content to a file or review it directly on the console.
```
